---
layout: talk
title: Ingex - Tapeless television production using Linux
conference: /conferences/2008/02/02/LCA2008/
speaker: Stuart Cunningham, BBS Research, UK
begin: 2008-01-28 16:40
---
<https://www.computerworld.com.au/index.php/id;58613278>

(BBS R&D?)

Video to post-production.

Digital tapes:

* Slow
* copying done in real-time
* error prone
* expensive $30,000 - $40,000 for 4 channel tape recorder

MFX - Material Exchange Format

SMPTE standard 377M

Widely supported in cameras, VTRs & editing systems.

Standard definition, not high definition.

Online, for live productions

* Uncompressed 166 Mbps
* Digibeta tape 88 Mbps
* MJPEG "2:1" 70 Mbps
* DVCPRO50 58 Mbps
* IMX 50 50 Mbps

(smaller files preferred for news, larger one for high quality productions)

Offline, for faster editing

* DV 29 MBPs
* MJPEG "10:1" 17 Mbps
* MJPEG "20:1" 8 Mbps

SDI Capture card, $1000-$5000.

## Dragons' Den

Still need to conform from DigiBeta tape. Not as slow as before,
only need the tapes being used, but still slow.

## Foo Fighter's video

Very cramped equipment overflowed onto toilet. Fans held by hand.

## EastEnders - Serial Dramma

Problems with legacy equipment.

* Old Avid editors and dark metadata
* Pro Tools v 5.3.1 and MobID

Network problems, network cards on wrong PCI bus.

## Other stuff

ffmpeg didn't support DVCPRO50, so we contracted somebody to write
a codec. It produced better quality output then many hardware encoders
that cost up to $50,000.

<https://ingex.sourceforge.net/>

High Definition - 2 streams supported with appropriate hardware.

archives are stored on tape:

* was D3 video tapes, but these are obsolete, and no longer possible to get
spare parts to repair drives.
* current system is LTO-3, will take 5 years to convert old tapes to
new format.
* uncompressed - maximum quality
* future proof, e.g. should be possible to convert to HDTV at maximum possible resolution.
* Data on tapes claimed to last 30 years by tape manufacturer, and this figure is trusted.
* LTO-3 tapes to be replaced in 5-10 years with newer technology.

Human robots cheaper then real robots for inserting tapes into drives,  due to infrequent use.

# Dr Who

Old episodes lost, despite some interesting techniques used to restore some of them.
