---
layout: talk
title: Multi-user Jingle
conference: /conferences/2009/01/24/LCA2009/
speaker: Sjoerd Simons
begin: 2009-01-21 11:40
---
XMPP protocol extension for managing peer to peer video and audio sessions.

## XMPP

* Based on XML.
* Formally known as Jabber.
* RFC3920 and RFC3921.
* Extensions using XEP (extension proposals).
* JID - looks like an email address.
* juliet@domain.com/resource - multiple clients on same account.
* message, presence, info/query

Jingle

* Extension to XMPP
* Supports RTP

MUC - Multi User Chat

## Multi User Jingle

* Should work ok for clients that don't support Multi-user Jingle.
* Joining Multi User Jingle session split into two stages to prevent race conditions.

Steps to join a session:

1. Announce that you're preparing to start or join the session. Send a presence
message.
2. After all clients that nnounced they were preparing to join have done so,
update your presence with payload mapping.

Multi User Jingle

* only needs basic infrastructure.
* each client can present conference in different manner.
* does not scale to large groups, due to bandwidth requirements.
  * Limited to number of streams a client can decode.
  * upstream bandwidth
  * local bandwidth

## Further work

Problem: not scalable

* RTP relay. Clients send streams to a relay, which relays to multiple clients.
* Mixer - client send streams to a mixer which combines streams into one
stream. Unfortunately clients no longer have control over presentation.
* Combined relay and mixer. Clients choose if they want to receive a mixed stream
or not. Allows clients to decide on tradeoff.

Problem: each client encodes data once, so must do so using method that is
compatable with all other clients.

* Scalable Video codecs. Low resolution low quality base layer. Add extra
layers for extra quality. Client decides which layers it wants to send.
H264/SVC exists but is heavily patented. No free standard available.

<https://telephathy.freedesktop.org/wiki/MultiUserJingle>  
<https://www.nlnet.nl/project/mujingle/>  
<https://farsight.freedesktop.org/>  
<https://nice.freedesktop.org/>
