---
layout: talk
title: Samba 4
conference: /conferences/2009/01/24/LCA2009/
speaker: Andrew Bartlett
begin: 2009-09-19 09:30  
---
## Samba4 is:

* replacement for Active Directory.
* move Samba beyond NT4 style domains which are obsolete.
* LDAP, Kerberos, DNS
* A provide a way to move forward without locking in to Microsoft products.

Features:

* Samba has reputation of being difficult to configure.  Samba4 should just work out of the box.
* Automatically generate configuration required for OpenLDAP, Bind, etc.
* Multi-master replication with OpenLDAP. Samba4 no longer a single server solution. No longer
single point of failure.
* Scripting language == Python
* Smart card support.
* NTP signing support - patch to ntpd server. Required for secure Kerberos
authentication. Microsoft's own NTP signing standard, not the existing
standard. Doesn't use network byte order.
* Group Policy support.
  * Basically dump. Client driven. Stored as globs. Registry files on
filesystem. Samba begginning to understand format for reading and dumping
values. Should be able to track changes.

Autoconfiguration:

* OpenLDAP not used directly by clients, generally doesn't listen on standard
port; clients generally don't connect to it.
* OpenLDAP modules to keep different methods of specifying groups in sync.
* ActiveDirectory schema different, this is automatically generated.

## Development

* Needs sysadmins/programmers for testing, etc.
* More code being written in Python.
* Multimaster currently difficult to setup - this is being made easier.
* "PAC Validation failed"
  * PAC == Privilage Attribute Certificate
  * Windows XP must check PAC with KDC, but only rarely.
* Microsoft's AD schema.
  * Not quite LDIF format.
  * Syntax errors.
  * Results to be integrated.
* Account expiry
  * Hardcoded 28 day password expiry
  * Also ignored no expiry flag.
* Machines stop working after one month.
  * Restore password from backup, and it worked.
  * Spent 1 week at Microsoft to figure it out.
  * Once a week each Windows client would change password to random value.
  * This string could not be interpreted as a UTF-8 string, as these were not valid characters.
  * Samba substituted empty string instead, possibly not a good idea.
  * Solution ugly. Reduces entropy? Maybe. May not be forward compatable with future UTF-8 specifications.
  * Each client needs to have a list of invalid characters and treat string as a string only if it doesn't contain invalid characters.
* MS-SNTP - Microsoft's signing NTP protocol. NTP community not happy... Will be integrated upstream but disabled by default.
* Web interface needs more work.
* Own LDAP server with its own schema. Is this a problem?

Future:

* Domain trusts
  * Limited success.
* Replication
  * Migration process.
  * Once only copy.
  * Full read/write replication.
* Want to know why people can't switch to Samba 4.
* Don't yet implement all the things Samba 3 does.
  * Print server. Getting correct drivers is a big part of the problem.
  * VFS modules in Samba 3 might be more trusted.
* Upgrade process.

## Questions

Revision control file system?

* Snapshots an be handled.
* Full revision control filesystems, should be possible to expose history of changes to clients.

python-wmi forked from early development version of Samba4, without coordination with Samba team, and needs to be reintegrated
with Samba4 again.

LDAP - Samba provides its own LDAP server, which can write to/from a file or talk to an OpenLDAP server.
