---
layout: conference
title: LCA2018 conference
categories: conferences
name: LCA2018
begin: 2018-01-22
end: 2018-01-26
location: Sydney, Australia
website: http://lca2018.linux.org.au/
---

LCA2018
=======

In 2018 I attended LCA2018 and gave a talk on Robotica. Mum and the three
kids we are caring for also came to Sydney with me.


Transport to Sydney
-------------------
Mum and I took turns driving my Tesla Model S. Unfortunately it was very hot
driving and this made the stops more tedious as it meant getting out of the air
conditioned car into the roasting sun. However we did need to stop, more often
then the car needed charging as us drivers needed regular breaks. It was rare
for us to be waiting for the car to charge, more often the car was waiting for
us.

On the first day we stopped at Euroa for recharging and lunch. We then
proceeded to Wondonga for another recharging and to buy things for tea. Due to
the high temperatures I dropped the others off at the nearby indoor shopping
centre and then drove to the supercharger to recharge. While I was waiting for
the car to recharge I walked to the indoor shopping centre. It was only 10
minutes walk but very hot. We then made several more stops at small places,
before stopping the night at Hillview Farmstay, a place near Gundagai.

I originally picked this place because it has a 4 bedroom apartment (The Lodge)
we could book, which is ideal with two adults and 3 kids. The plan was 1 adult
in one bedroom each, the twins in another bedroom, and the youngest in a
bedroom of her own. This did not go to plan, the youngest did not like sleeping
by herself, and ended up sharing a bedroom with one of the adults.

I was also surprised to find that they had two Tesla 3 phase chargers, which
meant my car was fully charged within several hours of arriving. This was
very convenient.

On the second day we made a number of extra stops at places like Yea and
Cambeltown. We did not want to arrive in Sydney during peak period, so did not
try to hurry. We also had lunch and recharged the car at Goulburn. We were
planning to go to Sydney via M5, the south route, but Google suggested due to
traffic it would be faster to go via M7 and M2, instead. It probably cost more
in tolls though.

We intended to charge the car at the St Leonards supercharger. Unfortunately
the car navigation intended on us turning right into Tesla from Herbert Street,
which is not legal because Herbert street has double lines through the entire
section. We ended up having to turn right onto another road, make a U-Turn
away from the double lines, and come back. This supercharger is not in a great
location for entertaining kids. According to Google Maps there is a Children's
Playground not far away, at the North end of Naremburn Park. We walked there
and found it was locked, and aimed at children younger then our kids anyway.
In the end we waited on the bridge above the train line and watched trains go
past.

At Sydney we stayed at a three bedroom apartment, at Meriton Suites, World
Tower. This was eventful trying to find the correct parking spots. The sign
said "private parking" and looked like it required a PIN for entry. I ended up
going around the city block and back to the same place again, and we followed
another car in. We were told this was the correct parking. Later on I looked
at the PIN entry keypad, only two find it had two buttons clearly marked
"PRESS HERE". Oh well. I must have been tired. Still, it would have been
good if the sign also said this was for guest parking.

Public Transport
----------------
After using Melbourne public transport for numerous years, it is interesting
to compare with Sydney. There are some aspects I much prefer with Sydney's
public transport, there are some aspects I hate.

The ongoing dispute with the train drivers did not prove a problem for us.

* The Sydney city loop is bidirectional, and the trains at the same platforms
  go in the same direction around the loop all day. This is much easier to
  understand then Melbourne, were some of the loop lines swap direction around
  midday, and depending on configuration it isn't possible to travel from any
  arbitrary station to any other station in the loop, because the trains are
  heading in the wrong direction.

* Opal is fast and responsive. I also like the mobile application, which allows
  me to read the card balance instantly from the card. Further more, trip
  details from trains seem to show up instantly on the mobile application, as
  opposed Myki where the do not show up until the next day.

* Often if you held you Opal card too long against the touch on device, it
  would interpret this as two transactions, the first one successful, the second
  one producing an error.  This is very confusing. We weren't the only people
  having this problem. Possibly this is due to the (bad) habit gathered from
  using Myki where you have to hold the Myki to the reader until the reader
  wakes up and processes it.

* Google maps has real time information on buses. Very good.

* I found the bus routes in the city very confusing. The fact bus stops do not
  have maps does not help. Instead they have a list of routes and destinations.
  This does not help with questions like: What bus do I catch to get from the
  University of Technology Sydney (UTS) to Museum station?

* On one such trip, Google said I should catch the 436 bus (note route numbers
  are from memory), which was several minutes away (and 5 minutes early). It
  came right when Google said it would, but it did not stop. I do not know why
  it did not stop. I caught the next bus, which Google also said I should
  catch. The 433 bus. It terminated at the Central station, which was a very
  short (and expensive) trip. It would have been better to walk.

* On another trip in the other direction, Google neglected to show the route of
  the 1st bus (M30 from memory), and instead preferred the 2nd bus (which ended
  up following the 1st bus).

* The daily limit for fares in Sydney is relatively high. However the fares
  generally end up being cheaper then Melbourne because we never reached the
  daily limit. Except for Sunday, where the daily limit is $2.60. This does
  mean however that every trip does cost extra, unlike in Melbourne where you
  effectively get free trips once you reach the daily limit.

LCA2018
-------
This conference was very good, as always, with some very good talks. Some
notable talks:

* `Is the 370 the worst bus route in Sydney? <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O7jqU39wvKk>`_
* `Tap On to Reverse Engineering <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qVvNdfKRw7M>`_.
* `Manage all your tasks with TaskWarrior <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zl68asL9jZA>`_.

The talk I gave:

* `Robotica - Robot maid for assisting with autistic kids <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mCUpShC9Cs8&t=16s>`_.

Return Trip
-----------
The return trip was cooler on the first day, although hot on the second day. We
drove on the southern route out of Sydney, via the cross city tunnel. The only
drama was not being able to find the entrance to the cross city tunnel until we
were next to it. So we had go around the largish block and try again. The 2nd
attempt was successful. We basically followed the same route and made similar
stops on the trip to Sydney, including the stay at Hillview Farmstay. On this
trip the owner of the Farm also gave as a tour of the farm and we fed some of
the animals.

Conclusion
----------
Interesting experience, interesting drive. However it was a long drive. When I
go to PyConAu in Sydney this August, I think I will fly as I don't think I
would be able to drive all the way to Sydney and back myself.
