---
layout: post
title: Nix Issues
tags: nix nixos
---

# Nix

As much as I like NIX, I have encountered a growing number of issues with
various bits and pieces. Which I am struggling to keep track off. This blog
post is so I can try to keep track of some of these issues.

## Dropbox

Dropbox support is [broken](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/issues/235345)
and unmaintained.

Maestral works, but neither nixos or home-manager have any sort of built in
module to automatically start it.

## xdg-desktop-portal-gnome.service broken with sway

See https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/issues/206630

This service needs to be manually disabled.

## Inefficiencies building rust - crane

Still need to look at this more. But when trying to build an application
that uses Crane, I constantly end up rebuilding crane itself. And any
changes to the application results in rebuilding all dependancies which I
thought is what crane was suppose to fix.

## Inefficiencies building rust - crate2nix

See https://github.com/cargo2nix/cargo2nix/issues/318

Also seems to be painful using with dependabot, because dependabot won't
automatically update the nix file.

## Nixos and RPI3

I tried for many days to get the official 7inch screen working with nixos,
but got nowhere.

I tried with a number of brands of HDMI touch screens too, but always had
problems:

* Screen takes too long to turn back on after powering off. This makes my
  application seem sluggish - it powers the screen off when inactive - when
  trying to interact with it.
* Some screens result it noticable delay when interacting with app for
  almost a minute after powering on screen. Theory is these screens don't
  implement CEC(?) calls correctly and wayland is timing out trying to
  interact with screen.

For now using rasbian with home-manager. Which isn't as good, but it seems
to work for now.

## zoiper5

I built a [flake](https://github.com/brianmay/zoiper) for it, but it
doesn't run.

```
$ nix build
$ ./result/bin/zoiper
APP Started! [ PID: 242517 ]
APP Started! [ PID: 242519 ]
APP Started! [ PID: 242520 ]
[1]    242517 trace trap (core dumped)  ./result/bin/zoiper
[0100/000000.542523:ERROR:zygote_linux.cc(607)] Zygote could not fork: process_type gpu-process numfds 3 child_pid -1
[0100/000000.542600:ERROR:zygote_linux.cc(639)] write: Broken pipe (32)
```

Appears to be a chomium error. I think.

Probably should try running this within a Debian VM, think that should
work.

## tesla_auth

I just can't get this [simple rust application](https://github.com/adriankumpf/tesla_auth) working correctly
under nix, browser loads correctly, shows login, but cannot interact with
website as it appears to be loading still.

Running this inside a Debian VM for now works.
