+++
title = "Trip to Hobart and then Numurkah"

[extra]
type = "trip"
destination = "Numurkah"
transport = "car"
begin = 2017-01-13
end = 2017-01-27
purpose = "holiday"
photo_album = 3358
+++

We had a holiday house booked in Numurkah. This immediately followed the [Hobart](@/posts/2017-01-13-Hobart.md) holiday.

Unfortunately, for this stage we
had 6 people, and only room for 5 in my car. So we had to take two cars (one
being a petrol car).

Numurkah is North on the supercharger at Euroa. So I planed to travel
on the Hume Freeway to get there. It is possible to drive from the Richmond
supercharger to Euroa almost entirely on freeways. The car navigation
thought it would be better to drive through the city. I disagreed, and
went my way via city link, Bolte Bridge, Tullamarine Freeway, and the
Western Ring Road.

At Euroa supercharger, I parked rear end first into the spot on the right of
the charger. Before realizing that the cable was on the other side, and
wouldn't reach. I wasn't the only one to do this. So I parked in the left
spot, and found the cable was really tight, however I got a connection. I
charged to 100% from 267km, as this was going to be the last chance to charge
for the week.

At Numurkah we visited various places through the week, including The Big
Strawberry, Glenarron Farms, and on the return trip, the Chocolate Apple
Factory.

On the return trip, my car was down to 106km at Euroa. I noticed for both my
trips, there was another car charging at the same time as me for at least part
of the time, so I tend to agree when others say 2 chargers isn't enough. We
weren't ready to leave after it finished charging, so I relocated my car and
found that almost all parking spaces were taken.
