---
layout: talk
title: Could SCO v IBM Happen to You?
meeting: /conferences/2004/01/17/LCA2004/
speaker: Jeremy Malcolm
begin: 2004-01-15 11:00
---
case backfired on SCO

IP = intellectual property

How to avoid falling in the same trap?

The SCO Group

* The great Satan
* was Caldera Systems, purchased Novell's IP

AT&T

* now Novell
* original Unix IP owner

IBM

* Bought license from SCO for IP used for AIX

12 May 2003

* initial warning to users

11 April 2005

* the trial begins

Lots of time for uncertainty in the mean time

SCO is going to fail

* No evidence that code was copied
* Even if proprietary code exists, SCO was publishing it as GPL
* A mistake?
* Oops not a legal defence?
* ...but it wasn't authorised?

BSD code now a problem  
other operating systems, Mac OS and Windows could be affected?  
major Linux customer? Google?  
Red Hat counter sued SCO.  
IBM counter sued SCO.

5 December, IBM court order for SCO to produce code 11 January; will be
made public 23 January.

can't buy license from SCO in Australia yet.

complaints to ACCC, not yet resulted in formal investigation.

Claims

* SMP
* LVM
* 32 and 64 bit processing
* journalling filesystem JFS
                JFS originally from OS/2, which came from BSD
* clustering

Not part of the licensed code in AIX

SCO claims to have terminated license to IBM for AIX

Has IBM breached IP/Copyright laws?

* SCO says yes, but Novell disputes this
* does SCO own copyright rights or Novell?
* Only answer from court case will be "has IBM breached contract with IBM?"

IP law 101

* Copyright
  * similarity in code doesn't mean breach of copyright
  * e.g. BSD header files are the same by coincidence
  * same code so simple not protected by copyright law
  * protects expression of ideas, not ideas themselves
  * e.g. copying book and changing names is not protected by copyright
  * how long? 50 years Australia, 70 years USA.
  * automatic in almost every country
* Patent
  * new and innovative
  * protect public at large from using information
  * 8 years in Australia, less red tape required
  * 20 years for full patent in Australia
  * can infringe accidentally
  * Need to take out in every country
* Trade Secrets
  * protect ideas as well as expression of ideas
  * must remain confidential to be protected
* Trade mark

Copyright law, copying is OK if:

* software public domain
* trivial works
  * only one way to do it
  * code or comments
* not a substantial part,
  * small but vital part might be protected; longer part might not be
  * grey area, know code, get legal advice
* re-engineering is OK
* copying for permitted purpose
  * interoperable product (only in Australia)
* only ideas copied

Accidental breach if:

* Trade secrets trump copyright law
  * IBM working on two projects at once
* Patents
  * Have to honour even if you haven't heard of it
  * Linux has broken patents, but not being attacked (yet)
* Derivative work
  * May include plugins, libraries, etc.
  * What is a derivative work> Very unclear.
  * FSF, one extreme, simply linking it is derivative, even dynamic linking
  * BSD other extreme
  * opinion, static linking derivative work; simply using/dynamic linking isn't
  * Linus, if-and-only-if module fiddles with internal Linux code it is a derivative work

How to protect?

* Chinese Walls
  * separate developers
  * protect each project from confidential information from other project
  * IBM claims to have done this
  * Ideally don't work on both proprietary and open source software at same time in same field
* Developers have liability
  * leader of open source software, ensure all developers declare code is cleanliness
  * indemnity against liability?? Signing indemnity might be taking things too far
  * get clearance from employers
* choose right license
* MPL best one for patents
* GPL contains clause 7 for patents
* BSD license, Artistic license ignores patents
* read up on patents, ignorance not a defence
* royalty free license that is compatible with open source license
* contact lawyer, pay lots of money to search  patents, if wrong sue them
* don't derive, plug in, the more independent, the safer

lucky a case like the SCO case hasn't happened before  
won't be such a friendly place  
improve processes and procedures

US free trade agreement

* most significant impact on copyright rule
* difficult for Australia to avoid caving into what USA wants
* DCMA law puts a lot of people in danger of accidental breach
* Our law is better then USA's law

but I didn't know the license was revoked, so I can continue using it

Same developer working on multiple projects, need to get approval first, no way to prove no IP was copied.
