---
layout: talk
title: Free and Open GeoData - From Shadows to Reality
conference: /conferences/2009/01/24/LCA2009/
speaker: Simon Greener
begin: 2009-01-20 14:50
---
<http://spatialdbadvisor.com/>

Nokia going to buy Navteq.

Geodata is locational data.

70% to 80% of information collected by government and business is spatial in
nature.

Shuttle Radar Toography Mission (SRTM) at 30m and 60m pixel size.

## Government providers

Nine agencies in Australia

Public Sector Mapping Agency (PSMA)

* Official data
* Property boundaries
* Post code boundaries
* No common standards. Varies depending on vendor that area uses.
* PSMA not allowed to makes changes.
* Scan documents for errors. Notify appropriate department in case or error.
Error may get fixed within 3 months min.
* Map data sciences, Google map provider. Not in the business of giving maps away.

Office of Spatial Data Management (OSDM)

* <http://www.osdm.gov.au> - DVD only (may have changed recently)

Any data that is any good you have to pay for. If it is crap you get it for
free.

GeoData - New Zealand

* One agency only in New Zealand.

## Private providers

* TeleAtlas (cf Google)
* Navteq
* Telstra

Google maps

* Free for non-commercial use.
* Best freely accessible base maps around.
* Geocoder coordinates obtained from addresses can only be used as input into Google applications (?).

Microsoft Virtual Earth

* Free for non-commercial use.
* Transaction costs for business.

Yahoo

* supposedly far more free particular in allowing digitising from imagery free
of restriction.
* Geocoder coordinates obtained from addresses can only be used as input into Google applications (?).

## Commercial

Gaarmin

Not alway good value for money.

Spatial data is complicated and constantly needs to be updated.


## Open mapping projects

<http://free-map.org.uk>

London Free Map
<http://london.freemap.in/osm.html>

Geowiki - obsolete. Points of interest. No links from maps.

Open Street Map (OSM)

* Geek free areas tend not to get any coverage.
* Impossible to keep up-to-date. Too many changes.
* No statement concerning accuracy of data.
* For creating tracks: GPS receiver needs a good view of the sky.
* No differential correction specified.
* Setting PDOP not required.
* 15 degrees minimum, any satalite below 15 degrees not usable. GPS may use it
regardless.
* America has best GPS coverage.
* Multipath isues. Reflections. etc. $20,000 equipment will fix this.
* Accuracy read out from GPS may not be accurate. Accuracy worse then stated.
* Small scale cycling, bushwalking and tourist use. Not meant to be accurate.
* Not anti-open street map.

Open GeoData Australia

* Claims high quality maps, like others, but this is not possible.
* How are maps created? Garmin.

Shonky maps

* <http://shonkylogic.net/shonkymaps/>
* not bad at all

GeoTorrent.org

## Markup vs Data

Most people just want points, which the free projects don't provide.

GeoData is complicated, and hard to get right. If user turn left instead of
right and runs into a fire truck, they may try to sue, despite any disclaimer.
"No live firetruck data provided."

Value added GeoData.

Who is responsible for updating it. Removing old points?
