---
layout: talk
title: Free as in Market; Liberty and Property
meeting: /conferences/2009/01/24/LCA2009/
speaker: Rusty Russell
begin: 2009-01-20 16:30
---
Question 0: Why Should I care?

* We have to talk to others.
* We have to understand what we are talking about.
* What does it do?
* What does it do, do?
* Why does it do?

Traffic Light:

* Stop traffic
* So how long do they stay red? For ever!
* but thats not what it is for, that is what it does.

Copyright law:

* It stops copying.
* Not what it is for.
* A bit like a tax.
* owner is the person who takes the tax, not the owner.

Erosion of property

* people want value property, won't do things with it.
* If unauthorised copying == stealing, then lobbying to
remove my property rights without compensation is ???
* Not really a tax. No transfer actually happens. Just destruction.
* Copyright owner doesn't have access, all he can do is prevent people making
copies.

Digital cropburning

* Negative right.
* Destruction of rights normally associated with ownership.

IP Market place

* Is more expensive.
* Does nothing.
* Actually producing stuff is what matters.
* IP Market is parasitic. Takes actual goods from market.
* We hope it will increase market. In practise it may not.
* What is the affect on the market place as a whole?
* It is not a profit, it is a cost to society.

CC-By/Free Licenses

* Restore most of your property rights.
* Owner gives you most of the copyright rights.
* Rights taken are so insignificant user doesn't care.

Politicians:

* They are shaped like Humans.
* Very frustrating experience.

Intellectual property is a form of property. Real property (power) that has
been destroyed. Not an imaginary property, that makes it sound less important,
not more important.

Trademark

* reasonably good, need to keep eye on ball as to why they are required.

Patents

* Many flaws
* Temporary Monopoly. Temporary evil.
* Structural flaws. Cannot be easily fixed.
* Plan to extend to 100 years.

Copyright law

* Proposed to have copyright on all property.
