---
layout: talk
title: Software Raid in Linux
meeting: /conferences/2010/01/23/LCA2010/
speaker: Steven Ellis
begin: 2010-01-19 11:55
---
Hardware Raid, lots of controller issues.

Hardware had the habbit of reinitializing the raid.

Software Raid, can mix and match hardware types. Performance usually sufficient
for modern day to day usage.

SATA PCI card. Sanity check before exposing business to it. Considerable hardware
failures in the past.

Hardware raid controllers don't let you see the low level disks, not possible
to see smart data.

Software RAID without partition - your mad! Put in a partition table, it is only small.

Stress test with production data before going live.

Keep old volumes in case we have issues.

Users report files loaded are slightly different to when they were saved. File
curruption.

Filesystem check happy, revert to old volumes.

Can't reproduce problem on our test hardware.

Move back to production server. Still seeing data curruption.

Create dummy test files on test, running md5sum checks on, check runs in a
loop. Sometimes md5sums match, sometimes they don't. Depends on access point
used to retrieve data.

Software raid exposes /sys filesystem. Force raid to run a check on itself.
This takes a long time.

High mismatch count. 311424, very high, disks out of sync, count should be 0.

Repair disk mismatch. Fix filesystem issues. Wait. wait, test the system. Run
checksum loop again.  Surprise, still got data curruption.

Bug in Xen? Bug in VM? Reduce the problem, remove Xen. Will still have the
problem.

Kernel mailing list, sata mailing list, raid mailing list, raid WD Hard Drive Issues.

Known problems with SATA controller known problems are fixed.

Time Limited Error Recovery (TLER). Enterprise series drives have this enabled
by default. Standard Green drives don't, enable at own risk. WDTLER.EXE. This wasn't
the problem.

TLER: most hardware vendors enable this by default on enterprise drives for
SATA drivers, but not consumable drives. If can't recover within certain period
of time, drive is marked as bad, and error is returned to controller, rather
then keep trying to find spare drive for a long time. Hard drives fail when
all spare blocks are used. Harder to work out what is happening when this
happens.

smartctl -a -d ata will list number of blocks that have reallocated. Can't trust
figure from seagate.

You wouldn't normally expect lack of TLER to cause disk disk curruption,
however we needed to eliminate this as a possible reason.

Check hardware conflicts. Check firmware system boards, controllers, IDE/SATA
controller conflict, motherboard family, new hard drive with same version of
Redhat. Suspect hardware conflict.

Same everything, different motherboard, different IDE, no problems. Internal
SATA controller OK, and external SATA controller OK.

