---
layout: talk
title: Hackers at the end of the world
meeting: /conferences/2010/01/23/LCA2010/
speaker: Glyn Moody
begin: 2010-01-21 09:10
---
Tea towel, map of the world with NZ at the top. Open mind to closed ways
of thinking.

Scientists get paid mostly by public funding. They write up new inventions,
submit to publication. Publisher will get article peer reviewed by 3 reviewers
and publish it for say $10,000 a year. Scientists get no money, reviewers
get no money. Publisher earns money for doing nothing based on publicly funded
work. Scientists starting to question if this is really fair.

Scientists encouraged by layers to keep data, patent it, not give it away for
free. We discovered it, we should be able to profit from it.

Bermuda principles 1996 went against this and said discovered DNA sequences
should be published to public database.

Year 2000 race with Craig Venter's Celera. There were going to win and patent
the entire human gene system. Instead it was won by Lone hacker, Jim Kent.
Cluster of 100 Linux PCs with 800Mhz Pentium processors, 250 Mbyte RAM.
Information was put in public domain, and meant Celera couldn't patent.

Science not just about publishing black box results, but also publishing the
"source code" of the data.

Sharing art. Project Gutenburg 1971. 1991 just 10 ebooks.

6 August  1991 WWW become publicly available.

Licensing of documentation. Early concern was that information would be used
for commercial purposes. Licenses were very restrictive as a result. This has
carried through to recent licenses too.

Creative commons. Some versions are more restrictive then GPL. Not possible to
copy content from some licenses to other licenses.

GNU GFDL 1.3 had special clause that allowed wikipedia to upgrade and use
latest GFDL license.

wikimania - probably the best single example of why sharing works - is
easiest to understand for non-programmers.

sharing: web pages, blogs, delicious (bookmarks), Flickr, Youtube, scribd,
SlideShare, MySpace, Facebook,

twitter, identica - release early release often type thinking.

"open governments" - good that it is happening, however governments
aren't releasing control, only releasing bits of data here and there.

Stock markets are gambling. Guess the future. I'll bet you a trillion dollars
that the price of the dollar will go up next week. No its not, I'll bet you it
isn't. Can invent any sum of money they want to bet. Horse betting is safer,
sums of money much smaller.

Gambling is a zero-sum game. For every winner there is always a loser. There
is no overall benefit. Winners lose because they destroy the resource they are
getting the money from.

Same with environment. I am going to get the fish that before you get the fish.
Over fishing results in no fish being left. The earth can't expand to meet
the demands. We have to learn how to share the limited resources. Or create
walls, which we have anyway.

resources: atmosphere, rainforests, oceans, fresh water, energy, minerals, etc.

You are the tea towel.

## Questions

Need to build transparency into system from the very start or people will
subvert it. Breaking pattern will be difficult.

Journalists and science. Sometimes journalists will publish non-peer reviewed
articles. Journalists need to think about what they are trying to do. There
isn't anything you can do about it, it will happen anyway, you might as well as
embrace it.

Idea of sharing is moving across to other domains.

Communities managing resources, eg. forests, that we traditionally have
destroyed. Western societies need to learn from other societies that manage
these resources better.

copyright law has been strengthened and strengthened always in the favour of
the copyright owner. Was 14 years after data of publication. Now 70years after
copyright owner dies. Now talking about property, not about monopolies.
Propaganda is that you are destroying jobs by sharing. Makes the debate unfair.
Need to push the idea sharing is good. Your mother said sharing is good, so why
are people being arrested for sharing? Was your mother wrong?
